Added a doc page for the Settings Registry detailing how to use the new `$import` directive (#2435)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/settings/import-settings-registry.md

---
title: Settings Registry $import Chaining

> linkTitle: Settings Registry $import

Author: I'll remove the term `$import` from the title as well as the link to this page from the index

description: Learn how the Settings Registry can use the $import directive to merge additional settings registry files in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).

> weight: 300

Author: I'll make that change.

---

The Settings Registry supports the ability to merge additional Settings Registry files `*.setreg(patch)` via the [JSON Importer Framework](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Code/Framework/AzCore/AzCore/Serialization/Json/JsonImporter.h).  
Any field named `$import` within a Settings Registry file cab be used to specify additional `*.setreg`, `*.setregpatch` or any other JSON format files to merge to the Settings Registry.  

When a Settings Registry file is merged using the [Merge API](./developer-api#merge-api), it triggers the logic to look for `$import` directives within the settings file to merge additional JSON files.

> The order in which the additional files are merged occur at the point where their `$import` directives are processed.  

Author: That it does more succinctly.

Any setting that appears before the `$import` directive can be overridden by the JSON contents of the imported file.  
Any setting that appears after the `$import` directive will override and merge over the JSON contents of the imported file.

> # Chain import setreg file using a `$import` directive string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Chain import setreg file using a `$import` directive string
```

> The following shows how to use the `$import` directive to merge another Settings Registry file using a string value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use the `$import` directive to merge another Settings Registry file using a string value.
```

> ### test.apple.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `test.apple.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "pre_field": { "first": 1, "second": 2 },
    "$import": "test.ios.setreg",
    "post_field": { "1": 11, "2": 12 }
}
```

> ### test.ios.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `test.ios.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "pre_field": { "second": 202 },
    "post_field": { "2": 120 }
}
```

> The merging the `test.apple.setreg` file results in the final JSON output that follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After `test.ios.setreg` is merged, the `test.apple.setreg` file results in the following final JSON output:
```

### Import Result
```json
{
    "pre_field": { "first": 1, "second": 202 },
    "post_field": { "1": 11, "2": 12 }
}
```

Notice that the `"pre_field"` that appear before the `$import` directive has its `"second"` field value (`202`) overridden by the imported `test.ios.setreg` file.  
Contrast the difference with the `"post_field"` that appears after the `$import` directive. The `"2"` field value (`12`) is from the original `test.apple.setreg` file.

> # Chain import setreg file using a `$import` directive object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Chain import setreg file using a `$import` directive object
```

> The following shows how to use the `$import` directive to merge another Settings Registry file using a JSON object with a `filename` key.

Reviewer: Can you give a reason / scenario why a user would use this more complex syntax?

Author: Yes, this syntax comes into play, if for example the user wanted to apply a JSON merge patch operation of a specific JSON string directly over the imported contents.

The `$import` directive supports a `patch` field, which has been undocumented so far, but is being used with the JSON Serialization system as part of the Material Type JSON files [here](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/2581515db411ec90f633a2414d174fab638da559/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/Materials/Types/StandardMultilayerPBR.materialtype#L330-L338).

I'll add a mention of the `patch` field here and will properly document it, so that the user has a reason to use the object syntax.

> ### test.android.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `test.android.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "$import": {
        "filename": "test.mobile.setreg"
    }
}
```

> # Importing multiple setreg file using a `$import` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Importing multiple setreg files using a `$import` directive
```

The following shows how multiple uses of the same `$import` key can be used to merge multiple Settings Registry files.

> Given the following two Settings Registry files `number.setreg` and `string.setreg`, how the JSON contents are merged depends on the order they are specifed in the import file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the two Settings Registry files that follow, `number.setreg` and `string.setreg`, the result of the merge depends on the order in which the files appear in the import file.
```

> ## Example Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example Data
```

> ### number.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `number.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "1": 7,
    "2": 14
}
```

> ### string.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### string.setreg
```

> ### string.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `string.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "1": "Hello",
    "3": "World"
}
```

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 1
```

> Merging the aggregate setreg file with the following contents will merge the `string.setreg` over of the `number.setreg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging the aggregate setreg file with the following contents will merge `string.setreg` over `number.setreg`.
```

> ### aggregate.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `aggregate.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "$import": "number.setreg",
    "$import": "string.setreg"
}
```

> The value of for key `"1"` is from the `string.setreg` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of key `"1"` is from the `string.setreg` file.
```

> ### aggregate.setreg (Post Import)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `aggregate.setreg` (Post Import)
```

```json
{
    "1": "Hello",
    "2": 14,
    "3": "World"
}
```

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 2
```

Swapping the order of the `$import` directives changes the result of the values within the Settings Registry.

> ### aggregate2.setreg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `aggregate2.setreg`
```

```json
{
    "$import": "string.setreg",
    "$import": "number.setreg"
}
```

The value of key `"1"` is from the `number.setreg` file.

> ### aggregate2.setreg (Post Import)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `aggregate2.setreg` (Post Import)
```

```json
{
    "1": 7,
    "2": 14,
    "3": "World"
}
```

> With the above approach you can merge a chain of files into the Settings Registry via the `MergeSettingsFolder` or `MergeSettingsFile` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the approach shown in the preceding examples, you can merge a chain of files into the Settings Registry with the `MergeSettingsFolder` or `MergeSettingsFile` [Merge APIs](./developer-api#merge-api).
```

---
title: Settings Registry $import Chaining
linkTitle: Settings Registry $import
description: Learn how the Settings Registry can use the $import directive to merge additional settings registry files in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
weight: 300
---

> The Settings Registry supports the ability to merge additional Settings Registry files \[.setreg(patch)] via using the [JSON Importer Framework](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Code/Framework/AzCore/AzCore/Serialization/Json/JsonImporter.h) within the O3DE.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Settings Registry supports the ability to merge additional Settings Registry files \[.setreg(patch)] via the [JSON Importer Framework](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Code/Framework/AzCore/AzCore/Serialization/Json/JsonImporter.h).  
```

> Any fields withingthe Settings Registry file that has the field name of `$import` can be used to specify additional `.setreg`, `.setregpatch` or any other json format files to merge to the Settings Registry.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any field named `$import` within a Settings Registry file can be used to specify additional `.setreg`, `.setregpatch` or any other JSON format files to merge to the Settings Registry.  
```

When a Settings Registry file is merged using the [Merge API](./developer-api#merge-api), it triggers the logic to look for `$import` directives within the settings file to gather a list of additional files to merge.

> The order in which the additional files are merged are in a post-order traversal.  

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to give a brief example of post-order traversal.

Author: I removed the logic to have the Settings Registry files import in post-order traversal and instead, the $import files are merged as their fields are processed in top-down order.

The imported files are merged before the current Settings Registry file.  
Therefore the current file settings _overrides_ its `$import` directive settings.

## Chain import setreg file using a `$import` directive string

> The following shows how to use the `$import` to merge another Settings Registry file using a string value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following shows how to use the `$import` directive to merge another Settings Registry file using a string value.
```

### test.apple.setreg
```json
{
    "$import": "test.ios.setreg"
}
```

## Chain import setreg file using a `$import` directive object

> The following shows how to use the `$import` to merge another Settings Registry file using a JSON object with a `filename` key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following shows how to use the `$import` directive to merge another Settings Registry file using a JSON object with a `filename` key.
```

### test.ios.setreg
```json
{
    "$import": {
        "filename": "test.mobile.setreg"
    }
}
```

> With the above approach, a chain of files to merge the Settings Registry can be triggered by merging a file via the `MergeSettingsFolder` or `MergeSettingsFile` API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the above approach, a chain of files to merge into the Settings Registry can be triggered by merging a file via the `MergeSettingsFolder` or `MergeSettingsFile` API.
```

I think it would be useful to say why you might prefer one or the other approach.  Also, what is the syntax for importing multiple files?

Reviewer 2: Another way to word this
```suggestion
With the above approach you can merge a chain of files into the Settings Registry via the `MergeSettingsFolder` or `MergeSettingsFile` API.
```

Reviewer 2: It might be good to include an example of importing multiple files in a single .setreg

Author: I'll add example and explanation on how to import multiple files.
